class07-javascript2.md, before:

# Class07 JavaScript

## Duckett: JavaScript & jQuery: Intro + Scripts: Pages 1 - 24

- JavaScript Examples in Webpages: Slideshows, Validating Forms, Reloading part of a page, Using filters to show the data the user wants.
- Steps to writing scripts: Define goal, design script, code each step
- Using a flow chart to sketch out the tasks/steps needed to solve the problem.

## Duckett: JavaScript & jQuery: Expressions + Operators: 74 - 79

- Expression: assigning a variable
- `=` - Assignment operator
- Operators include `= > * + < && ++ -- %` etc.
- `&&` - Logical AND, equivalent of `and` in python.
- Adding a string to a number in JS results in a string concatenation
- **Applying any other operator to a string in JS results in NaN** (not a number)

## Duckett: JavaScript & jQuery: Expressions + Operators: Functions: 88 - 94

- calling a function in JS `myFunc();`
- assigning function return value to variable
  - `var wallOne = calculateArea(3, 5);`
- parameters vs. arguments
- IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expressions)
  - Declare a variable by creating a function that you use only there. An Anonymous function

## Extras

Article going in depth into [let, var, const](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/var-let-and-const-whats-the-difference/)

[<==Back](README.md)

Commit message:

Added a note to class07 describing how to call a function defined in js file in your html.

class07-javascript2.md, after:

# Class07 JavaScript

## Duckett: JavaScript & jQuery: Intro + Scripts: Pages 1 - 24

- JavaScript Examples in Webpages: Slideshows, Validating Forms, Reloading part of a page, Using filters to show the data the user wants.
- Steps to writing scripts: Define goal, design script, code each step
- Using a flow chart to sketch out the tasks/steps needed to solve the problem.

## Duckett: JavaScript & jQuery: Expressions + Operators: 74 - 79

- Expression: assigning a variable
- `=` - Assignment operator
- Operators include `= > * + < && ++ -- %` etc.
- `&&` - Logical AND, equivalent of `and` in python.
- Adding a string to a number in JS results in a string concatenation
- **Applying any other operator to a string in JS results in NaN** (not a number)

## Duckett: JavaScript & jQuery: Expressions + Operators: Functions: 88 - 94

- calling a function in JS `myFunc();`
- assigning function return value to variable
  - `var wallOne = calculateArea(3, 5);`
- parameters vs. arguments
- IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expressions)
  - Declare a variable by creating a function that you use only there. An Anonymous function

## Extras

- Article going in depth into [let, var, const](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/var-let-and-const-whats-the-difference/)
- Calling a function in html without a button. Insert this where you want to invoke the function`<script>myFunction();</script>`

[<==Back](README.md)
