code201/class-02.md, before:

# Class 2

## Read02: Basics of HTML, CSS & JS

### Duckett HTML Chapter 2: “Text” (pp.40-61)

- text tags discussed: h1+, p, b(bold), i(italic)
- superscript `<sup>` and subscript `<sub>` used for things like mathematical notation. superscript raises the text and shrinks it, subscript does the same but lowers the text.
- white space collapsing: any whitespace over 1 space will be shrunk to 1 space.
- br and hr tags for newline and solid line break
- semantic tags:
  - `<strong>` will make text bold, means strong importance
  - `<em>` will make text italic, means emphasis
  - `<blockquote>` to site a quote. use a `<p>` tag inside this tag. and don't rely on this for quote styling, use css for that.
  - `<q>` for quote, will put quotations around text in a p.
  - `<abbr>` abbreviation
  - `<cite>` citation
  - `<dfn>` definition
  - `<address>` author details
  - `<ins>` underlines to show element has been added to document
  - `<del>` strikethrough to show text has been deleted
  - `<s>` strikethrough, shows element is no longer acurate or relevant

### Duckett HTML Chapter 10: “Introducing CSS” (pp.226-245)

See [notes from Code102](../code102/class05-css.md).

### Duckett JS Chapter 2: “Basic JavaScript Instructions” (pp.53-84)

- p.53-69 See [notes from Code102](../code102/class06a-javascript.md). Covers using variables and some datatypes.
- p.70-73 Creating arrays and indexing arrays. Similar to python arrays at first glance.
- p.74-84 covers using arithmetic operators on numbers and strings (just + operator for strings). Examples include += <= - *

### Duckett JS Chapter 4: “Decisions and Loops” only up to the section on switch statements (pp.145-162)

- This section covers using conditionals like if...else statements in tandem with comparison operators.
- Comparison Operators
  - `==` `!=`
  - Strictly Equal and not Equal preferable `===` `!==`
  - Use brackets parenthesis on comparison operators `(score >= pass)`
  - `&&` and, `||` or, `!` not

[<== Back](/README.md)

Commit message:

Added in-class notes to class 2 and 3 reading notes.

code201/class-02.md, after:

# Class 2, February 9 2021

## Read02: Basics of HTML, CSS & JS

### Duckett HTML Chapter 2: “Text” (pp.40-61)

- text tags discussed: h1+, p, b(bold), i(italic)
- superscript `<sup>` and subscript `<sub>` used for things like mathematical notation. superscript raises the text and shrinks it, subscript does the same but lowers the text.
- white space collapsing: any whitespace over 1 space will be shrunk to 1 space.
- br and hr tags for newline and solid line break
- semantic tags:
  - `<strong>` will make text bold, means strong importance
  - `<em>` will make text italic, means emphasis
  - `<blockquote>` to site a quote. use a `<p>` tag inside this tag. and don't rely on this for quote styling, use css for that.
  - `<q>` for quote, will put quotations around text in a p.
  - `<abbr>` abbreviation
  - `<cite>` citation
  - `<dfn>` definition
  - `<address>` author details
  - `<ins>` underlines to show element has been added to document
  - `<del>` strikethrough to show text has been deleted
  - `<s>` strikethrough, shows element is no longer acurate or relevant

### Duckett HTML Chapter 10: “Introducing CSS” (pp.226-245)

See [notes from Code102](../code102/class05-css.md).

### Duckett JS Chapter 2: “Basic JavaScript Instructions” (pp.53-84)

- p.53-69 See [notes from Code102](../code102/class06a-javascript.md). Covers using variables and some datatypes.
- p.70-73 Creating arrays and indexing arrays. Similar to python arrays at first glance.
- p.74-84 covers using arithmetic operators on numbers and strings (just + operator for strings). Examples include += <= - *

### Duckett JS Chapter 4: “Decisions and Loops” only up to the section on switch statements (pp.145-162)

- This section covers using conditionals like if...else statements in tandem with comparison operators.
- Comparison Operators
  - `==` `!=`
  - Strictly Equal and not Equal preferable `===` `!==`
  - Use brackets parenthesis on comparison operators `(score >= pass)`
  - `&&` and, `||` or, `!` not

## In-Class Notes

- VS Code Shortcuts
  - command + b
    - open/close file explorer side panel
  - command + j
    - open/close console
- css rem size, changes based on the size an m would be rendered on your screen
- [gitignore.io](https://www.toptal.com/developers/gitignore)
- Use the gitignore from the class repo
- Introduction of a user story and feature tasks
- command shift .
  - to show hidden files in mac finder

[<== Back](/README.md)
