code201/class-11.md, before:

# Class 11

## Assorted Topics

### Duckett HTML Chapter 16: “Images” (pp.406-427)

- Images are inline elements by default. Changing their display to block and changing the margin to 0 auto, is one way of centering an image horizontally.
- background-image
  - background-repeat and background-attachment
  - background-position
  - background (shorthand, use in order of color, image, repeat, attachment, position)
- gradients can be placed in background-image but there will need to be different setting included for different browsers

### Ducket HTML Chapter 19: “Practical Information” (476-492)

- On page SEO, use keywords in these places:
  - Page title, URL/Web address, Headings, Text, Link Text, Image Alt Text, Page description (in meta tag in head)
- Keyword tools:
  - [adwords.google.co.uk/ select/KeywordToolExternal](adwords.google.co.uk/ select/KeywordToolExternal)
  - [www.wordtracker.com](www.wordtracker.com)
  - [www.keyworddiscovery.com](www.keyworddiscovery.com)
- Use keywords in your anchor tags instead of something like 'click me'
- SEO improves when other sites link to your site
- Can use Google Analytics for free to learn about your visitors
- FTP (File Transfer Protocol) - allows you to transfer files from your co,puter to a web server hosting your site. There are many external tools for this, see some on p.490

### Video and Audio APIs [Article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Client-side_web_APIs/Video_and_audio_APIs)

- `<video controls>` and `<audio>` tags allow you to embed media in a webpage
- use source tag in video tag to define the source and the type of video for different browsers
- add event listeners to play,  pause and stop media

[<== Back](../README.md)

Commit message:

Added lecture notes on using box-sizing in css.

code201/class-11.md, after:

# Class 11

## Assorted Topics

### Duckett HTML Chapter 16: “Images” (pp.406-427)

- Images are inline elements by default. Changing their display to block and changing the margin to 0 auto, is one way of centering an image horizontally.
- background-image
  - background-repeat and background-attachment
  - background-position
  - background (shorthand, use in order of color, image, repeat, attachment, position)
- gradients can be placed in background-image but there will need to be different setting included for different browsers

### Ducket HTML Chapter 19: “Practical Information” (476-492)

- On page SEO, use keywords in these places:
  - Page title, URL/Web address, Headings, Text, Link Text, Image Alt Text, Page description (in meta tag in head)
- Keyword tools:
  - [adwords.google.co.uk/ select/KeywordToolExternal](adwords.google.co.uk/ select/KeywordToolExternal)
  - [www.wordtracker.com](www.wordtracker.com)
  - [www.keyworddiscovery.com](www.keyworddiscovery.com)
- Use keywords in your anchor tags instead of something like 'click me'
- SEO improves when other sites link to your site
- Can use Google Analytics for free to learn about your visitors
- FTP (File Transfer Protocol) - allows you to transfer files from your co,puter to a web server hosting your site. There are many external tools for this, see some on p.490

### Video and Audio APIs [Article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Client-side_web_APIs/Video_and_audio_APIs)

- `<video controls>` and `<audio>` tags allow you to embed media in a webpage
- use source tag in video tag to define the source and the type of video for different browsers
- add event listeners to play,  pause and stop media

## Lecture Notes

- box-sizing: border-box css property: accounts for borders when assigning widths
  - feel free to apply to everything with * {} in css file
- Overlapping elements can occur by setting position of the thing you want to move to relative and then changing it's directional (top, left, down, right) property.

[<== Back](../README.md)
