code201/class-08.md, before:

# Class 8

## Read08: CSS Layout

### HTML/CSS book, Ch. 15, “Layout” (again; repeat of Class 4 reading)

- absolute, relative, fixed and floating positioning
- z-index property allows you to control which box appears on top when boxes overlap.
- relative: change the position of where something would be in 'normal-flow'. add top bottom left right properties to determine how far the object should be offset.
- float: allows you to place the box in an area you would want it in a container, everything else in the container will wrap around it accordingly
- p.370-376: in depth techniques for using float property.
- fixed width (tend to use pixels, less responsive) vs liquid layouts (tend to use %, change as user changes window size)
- css grid based layouts covered
- 2 ways to use multiple style sheets:
  - use multiple links in html
  - use @import url('styles.css'); in the css page you link.

Important summary points from page 404:

- Browsers display pages in normal flow unless you specify relative, absolute, or fixed positioning.
- The float property moves content to the left or right of the page and can be used to create multi-column layouts. (Floated items require a defined width.)
- Designers keep pages within 960-1000 pixels wide, and indicate what the site is about within the top 600 pixels (to demonstrate its relevance without scrolling).
- Grids help create professional and flexible designs.

[<== Back](../README.md)

Commit message:

Added notes for Protoypes in JS, and boilerplate for class09 notes.

code201/class-08.md, after:

# Class 8

## Read08: CSS Layout

### HTML/CSS book, Ch. 15, “Layout” (again; repeat of Class 4 reading)

- absolute, relative, fixed and floating positioning
- z-index property allows you to control which box appears on top when boxes overlap.
- relative: change the position of where something would be in 'normal-flow'. add top bottom left right properties to determine how far the object should be offset.
- float: allows you to place the box in an area you would want it in a container, everything else in the container will wrap around it accordingly
- p.370-376: in depth techniques for using float property.
- fixed width (tend to use pixels, less responsive) vs liquid layouts (tend to use %, change as user changes window size)
- css grid based layouts covered
- 2 ways to use multiple style sheets:
  - use multiple links in html
  - use @import url('styles.css'); in the css page you link.

Important summary points from page 404:

- Browsers display pages in normal flow unless you specify relative, absolute, or fixed positioning.
- The float property moves content to the left or right of the page and can be used to create multi-column layouts. (Floated items require a defined width.)
- Designers keep pages within 960-1000 pixels wide, and indicate what the site is about within the top 600 pixels (to demonstrate its relevance without scrolling).
- Grids help create professional and flexible designs.

## Lecture Notes

- [Why you should use prototype to create class methods in JavaScript](https://medium.com/the-andela-way/why-you-should-use-prototype-to-create-class-methods-in-javascript-ffaf82996977)
  - the short answer: it's more resourceful. methods will not be saved with every object created, so using prototype is less memory intensive.

[<== Back](../README.md)
